## Git Operation: Initializing a Repository

### git init
- Used to *initialize*, or turn, the current directory into a `Git` repository. If the current directory already happens to be an existing `Git` repository, then it will just *reinitialize* it.

```shell
$ git init
```

- Before running the `git init` command, confirm that the current directory is not yet a `Git` repository by running `git status`. You should see the error message `fatal: not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git`. If you see a different message, then the current directory you are in is already a `Git` repository.
- You only need to initialize the repository once for each of your projects.
- After running `git init` on a non-Git repo directory, you will see something like the following message:
```shell
Initialized empty Git repository in C:/Users/username/project_folder/.git/
```
- Otherwise, you will see the following message instead:
```shell
Reinitialized empty Git repository in C:/Users/username/project_folder/.git/
```

- If you type `git status` again, you will now see the following message; this tells you that your current directory is now a `Git` repository:
```shell
On branch main

No commits yet

nothing to commit (create/copy files and use "git add" to track)
```
- Also note that the terminal prompt path will now have `(main)` indicated after it. This means that you are in the default branch (main) of the repository (more on branches later):
```shell
username@LAPTOP-9GDCJFEG MINGW64 ~/project_folder (main)
$
```
- When `Git` successfully initializes a repository, it will create a hidden `.git/` folder, where its core files are located. You can verify this by typing the `ls -a` command at the Terminal. If you delete the `.git/` folder, then the repository will lose all its tracking history and it will just become a regular folder again. So, there is a reason why the `.git/` folder is hidden!

<hr>

<table align="center">
   <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>
            << Start: <a href="/README.md">README.md</a>
        </td>
        <td>
            < Previous: <a href="/assets/s4/ch12.md">Git Operation: Checking Repository Status</a>
        </td>
        <td>
            Next: <a href="#">TBA</a> >
        </td>
      </tr>
   </tbody>
</table>