## Git Setup: Windows

- Download and install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) if you haven't done so.

- Download and install [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win).

    - When you come across a window asking which default editor you would like `Git` to use, make sure to change from the selected default editor (Vim Editor - which is quite difficult to use, unless you already know your way around it, and you know how to exit it!) to *'Use Visual Studio Code as Git's default editor'*.

    - When you come across another window asking *'What would you like Git to name the initial branch after "git init"?'* choose *'Override the default branch name for new repositories'* and type *main* in the input box. This is because more and more developers are now moving away from naming the default repository branch as *master* and using the more inclusive term *main* instead.

    - For the rest of the options, leave them as is.

- **Git for Windows** includes a special Unix-based CLI called **Git Bash**; this is the recommended way to work with `Git` on Windows.

- After finishing installation, open *Git Bash* and check the `Git` version:

```shell
$ git -v
git version x.xx.x.windows.1
```

- If you want to update `Git` via terminal:

```shell
$ git update-git-for-windows
```

### (Optional): Setting Up the Default Terminal in VS Code

If you want to use the Git Bash Terminal from within Visual Studio Code, do the following steps:

- Open Visual Studio Code.
- Press *Ctrl + Shift + P* to open the *Command Palette*.
- In the *Command Palette*, choose *Terminal: Select Default Profile*.
- Select *Git Bash*.
- Open the Terminal in VS Code by pressing *Ctrl + Shift + `*.
  - If there are no open folders in VS code, the Git Bash Terminal will open in the designated home directory (`~`).
  - If there is an open folder, the Git Bash Terminal will open in that folder path.
- If done correctly, you can now use the Git Bash Terminal directly in VS Code, and you won't have to open the Git Bash app separately.

<hr>

<table align="center">
   <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>
            << Start: <a href="/README.md">README.md</a>
        </td>
        <td>
            < Previous: <a href="/assets/s2/ch03.md">Git Installation: Requirements</a>
        </td>
        <td>
            Next: <a href="/assets/s2/ch05.md">Git Setup: MacOS</a> >
        </td>
      </tr>
   </tbody>
</table>