## Terminal Navigation

### whoami
- Outputs the name of the current user

```shell
$ whoami
```
<hr>

### pwd
- Stands for *print working directory*.
- Displays the path of the current directory.

```shell
$ pwd
```

- *Directories* are simply folders that may contain files and/or more folders ("subdirectories") inside of them.

<hr>

### ls
- Stands for *list*.
- Lists the files and folders in the current directory.

```shell
$ ls
```
- To display the files and folders in the current directory in [long-list](https://linuxconfig.org/understanding-of-ls-command-with-a-long-listing-format-output-with-permission-bits) format:
```shell
$ ls -l
```
- To list all files and folders, including hidden ones, in the current directory:
```shell
$ ls -a
```

- To list all files and folders contained in a specific directory:
```shell
$ ls <folder name>
# you can also use the -l and -a options here
# example: ls -l <folder name>
```

- To list all files and folders contained in a specific path:
```shell
$ ls <path>
# Example: ls ~/Documents/Project
```

- In the Bash terminal, folders are denoted by having a forward slash(/) at the end of the name. Example: `folder_name/`.
- When specifying a path, each folder name should be separated by a forward-slash(/). Example: `Username/Desktop/Notes/file.txt`.

<hr>

### open or start
- Used to launch the *Finder* or *File Explorer* GUI in MacOS and Windows, respectively.

- To launch *Finder* in the current directory (MacOS):
```shell
$ open .
```

- To launch *Finder* and open a specific folder (MacOS):
```shell
$ open <folder name>
```

- To launch *File Explorer* in the current directory (Windows):
```shell
$ start .
```

- To launch *File Explorer* and open a specific folder (Windows):
```shell
$ start <folder name>
```

<hr>

### code .
- Launches the **VS Code** editor from the Terminal, and at the same time opens the current folder in VS Code.

```shell
$ code .
```

<hr>

### cd
- Stands for *change directory*.
- Command used to navigate or move between directories/folders.

```shell
$ cd <folder name>
```
or
```shell
$ cd <path>
```

- To move up one level from the current directory:
```shell
$ cd ..
```
- To move up two levels from the current directory:
```shell
$ cd ../..
```

- The home or starting directory is denoted by `~`. To navigate to the home directory from the current directory:
```shell
$ cd ~
```

<hr>

### clear
- Clears the terminal (screen).

```shell
$ clear
```

<hr>

### exit
- Exits the terminal (but not Vim).

```shell
$ exit
```

<hr>

<table align="center">
   <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>
            << Start: <a href="/README.md">README.md</a>
        </td>
        <td>
            < Previous: <a href="/assets/s3/ch08.md">Bash Basics: Introduction</a>
        </td>
        <td>
            Next: <a href="/assets/s3/ch10.md">File / Folder Operations</a> >
        </td>
      </tr>
   </tbody>
</table>